# Example Use Case [Laura Daniele]
Describe an example use case that instantiates the problem space, is as simple as possible, but shows the advantages of semantics and can be used in the following subsections.

Smart Home and Energy Efficiency Domain
Demand Response: Users can offer flexibility to the Smart Grid to manage their smart home devices by means of a Customer Energy Manager (CEM). The CEM is a logical function for optimizing energy consumption and/or production that can reside either in the home gateway or in the cloud. The interoperability of a device with other devices and with the CEM should be guaranteed regardless of their brand/manufacturer, because the user wants to be able to buy any washing machine they want and still have it communicate with the other devices that are already in their home. Some examples scenarios include the scheduling of appliances in certain modes and preferred times using power profiles to optimize energy efficiency and accommodate the user's preferences. For example, the user might want the washing done by 5:00 p.m. with least electrical power costs, or prefer to limit their own energy consumption up to a defined limit.

Collection and analysis of meter data: The collected meter data is provided by smart meters through two different interfaces on the meter. One (upstream) interface is used by the meter/grid operator for billing and grid management. This data is fed into the Head End system. Another interface provides real-time data for energy management. This data is fed into a Home Energy Gateway. Historic meter data can be retrieved from the Head-End system. Real-time data is retrieved from the Energy Gateway. Data Analytics applications analyse (real-time) consumer data to give insight in consumer behaviour and recommendations for energy efficiency.

The demonstrator produced during the recent DSF study for interoperability for the European Commission (SMART 2016/0082) in close collaboration with industrial stakeholders and appliance manufactures implements an energy gateway that uses SAREF and SAREF4ENER as overarching ontologies to combine data represented by oneM2M resources on the smart grid side (based on e.g., the IEC 61970 CIM standard), with data represented by SPINE resources on the Smart Home side (based on the CENELEC EN 50631-1 standard), and data represented by COSEM objects/ OBIS codes on the smart meter side (based on the IEC/CENELEC 62056 COSEM standard). 
