# Introduction [Martin Bauer]
Semantic technologies have recently gained significant support in a number of communities, in particular the IoT community. An important problem to be solved is that on the one hand it is clear that the value of IoT increases significantly with the availability of information from a wide variety of domains, on the other hand existing solutions target specific applications or application domains and there is no easy way of sharing information between the resulting silos. Thus a solution is needed to achieve interoperability between the silos. As there is a huge heterogeneity regarding IoT technologies on the lower levels, the semantic level is seen as a promising approach for achieving interoperability, i.e. semantic interoperability.
As a basis for this, semantic technologies have reached a good level of maturity and a number of standards and de-facto standards are available to implement semantic-based solutions. 
However, currently the widespread use is hindered by the fact that developers and system architects are not familiar with semantic technologies. The respective knowledge is still primarily limited to a group of experts. Thus, the purpose of this Whitepaper is to spread this knowledge further and in particular to show the developer community how semantic solutions can be implemented and how semantic interoperability can be achieved. The goal is to show the practical feasibility of the approach.
The approach of the paper is to take a small, but relevant example, and go through different aspects and activities that are needed when developing semantic solutions. For each of the steps relevant types of useful tools are explained with references to an appendix that provides a list of actual tools with short descriptions and relevant links, so, depending on the respective requirements, an appropriate tool can be chosen.
